Today you have heard the prosecution claim that Jake Peifer aided the kidnapping of Wilhemina Hamm. They expect you to believe the conclusions they made based on circumstantial evidence can accurately prove their case, but the fact is that there is too much doubt present in this case: which car was Wilhelmina picked up in, was the fingerprint a match, who gave the ransom call; who is really responsible for the kidnapping? Based on the evidence shown in this case, it could have been anyone. 

There were three aspects of this case that the prosecution needed to prove in order to convict Mr. Peifer: that Jack Peifer or someone for whose acts he is liable moved Wilhelmina Hamm without her consent, that Jack Peifer or someone for whose acts he is liable held her for ransom or reward for release, that this happened on or about June 15 - 19, 1933 in St. Paul, MN. There are some undisputed facts: Wilhelmina was indeed kidnapped, the ransom notes sent to Billie Dunn are real, the time of the kidnapping is accurate, but for each of these facts the prosecution proved, there is a fact they can't prove: who kidnapped Wilhelmina Hamm, who sent the ransom notes, where was Wilhemina held? The prosecution has tried to answer these questions, but the fact is these questions cannot be answered through the evidence brought forward today, the only conclusion that should be made is that the kidnapper could be anyone.

We, the defense, called three witnesses today in order to show both the innocence of Jack Peifer, and a lack of substantial evidence on the part of the prosecution. Francis McDougal was called to testify on the authenticity of the fingerprint, the primary piece of evidence the prosecution has. As a fingerprint expert who worked with the fbi, McDougal concluded, based on her experienced, expert opinion, that the fingerprint recovered is not a match. However, she also testified to the concept of unconscious bias, which causes the investigator to conclude that two fingerprints match if they have incentive to believe so beforehand. Not only that, but she told you that the more smudged a fingerprint is, the more the conclusion is based on guesswork. 

Next, the defense called Ryan Touhy to the stand, who was arrested and tried for this same crime based on little to no evidence. Touhy also testified to the fact that Jack Peifer was with her for a large amount of time while the kidnapping was taking place. The only hole in Jack Peifer’s alibi is when Mrs. Touhy left him alone for two hours. The prosecution claim that this would be time enough for mr. Peifer to take the ninety minute round trip from Wyoming, MN to st. Pual, MN, and kidnap Wilhelmina Hamm. Ryan Touhy can told you that Jack Peifer had driven a black Cadillac sedan to her cabin, while the best guess that Wilhemina could make on the kind of car she was picked up in was a Hudson sedan. This means that Jack Peifer would not only have to take the forty-five minute drive, to St. Paul, change cars before kidnapping wilhelmina, and changing back again before finishing the next forty-five minute drive back to Wyoming. Furthermore, this is all based on the assumption Jack Peifer did actually leave, which is nothing more than a conclusion the state jumped to upon noticing the smallest gap in his alibi.

Finally, we called the defendant, Jack Peifer to testify. The prosecution tried to make mr. Peifer out to be a greedy, cheating criminal, but in court today he showed his true colors. Jack Peifer is an honest businessman, with the interests of his customers his primary focus. While he admitted to doing things that were not technically legal, the police have had ample opportunity to prosecute him in the past, and chose not to. The biggest piece of evidence the state holds against him is his fingerprint on the ransom note. While the authenticity of the print has yet to be confirmed, the fact that his fingerprint is on a piece of paper that he owned should come of no surprise. Mr. Peifer told us that he does the majority of paperwork at his club, and he wouldn't think twice about giving his paper to anyone who wanted it. Furthermore, he told us that he doesn't pry into the affairs of his guests, or even notice who stays in the rooms he rents out. Jack Peifer’s business is doing well, quite well. He doesn't need to supplement his income. The only reason that Jack Peifer is here is because the state jumped to conclusions based on a single piece of heavily contested evidence.

The state also called three witnesses today, three witnesses with holes in their stories. Through the testimony of chief tony dahill the prosecution hoped to link Jack Peifer to the kidnapping by identifying his fingerprints on the ransom note. While the expert witnesses in this case disagree over the minimum number of comparable points, the state claims that chief dahill was able to accurately match the prints through his expert discretion. However, they expect you to ignore the fact that this same discretion was used to arrest the innocent Ryan Touhy before Jack Peifer’s name was ever called into question. The same discretion that assigned Thomas brown, one of the most corrupt officers in the district, to lead this investigation. Dahill swore to do everything in his power to drive the gangsters out. It is up to you, the jury, to decide if Dahill’s conclusion of the fingerprint match is accurate, or if unconscious bias is at play here. 

The state also called Billie Dunn to the stand with the goal of proving that Jack Peifer was responsible for the ransom call and the ransom notes. However, his/her testimony is filled with doubt from the very beginning. S/he did not know who called him/her, or who was responsible for the ransom notes. It could have been anyone. S/he recognized Sam tanaka in the passenger seat of the car, but not the driver. Sam tanaka is not the defendant today - the driver could have been anyone. Furthermore, Mr/s. Dunn admitted to calling the police after the kidnappers explicitly warned against it, threatening to kill Wilhelmina Hamm if she did. However, Mr/s. Dunn’s reason for taking the large sum of $100,000 from the brewery vault was that Wilhelmina's life was in danger. Mr/s. Dunn’s testimony, is filled with questions that the prosecution could not answer - who sent the ransom notes, who drove the car, why the conflict of interests?

Finally, the state called the victim, Wilhelmina Hamm today in an attempt to prove that the room she was held in was the hollyhocks. While the unfortunate reality of her kidnapping is not under question, much of her testimony is, because she had limited knowledge of her surroundings while she was kidnapped. She was kidnapped in a black sedan, but failed to identify the make of the car with certainty - it could have been any black sedan. The rooms he was held in did indeed sport a hunter green wallpaper with pink and gold flamingoes, but the truth is, it's not a unique wallpaper. Even had she been held in the hollyhocks, it has no bearing on the innocence of Mr. Peifer, as he told us that has very little knowledge of who stays in the rooms he rents out, to preserve the privacy of his guests. Mrs. Wilhemina managed to identify Sam tanaka while she was kidnapped, but again, he is not the defendant, and Jack Peifer was not seen throughout the entire time she was held.

Jack Peifer is here today because chief Dahill had no other option - the kidnapper could have been anyone, but he is using this case as an excuse to lock up those he believes are criminals. In his quest to drive gangsters out of St. Paul, he targeted Ryan Touhy as the first suspect, based on no real evidence. When that plan fell through he turned to a latent fingerprint from a ransom note written on a piece of paper that Jack Peifer could have touched a hundred times before anything was printed on it. Based on this scrap of evidence, the state then tried to build a case based on conclusion that were prematurely reached - the car picked Wilhelmina Hamm the day she was kidnapped could have been any car. The sender of the ransom notes and the person who called billie dunn could have been anyone. The room Wilhelmina was kept in could have been anywhere. All the evidence that the prosecution has based its case around is the result of jumping to conclusions on a misguided witch hunt.

With this in mind, my co-counsel and I ask that Jack Peifer be declared not guilty.)(*(*^*%&$^#%$#":">??><;',/.,\`~))4573457
